# Multi-Factor-Authentication
Scalable and Secure Big Data IoT System Based on Multifactor Authentication and Lightweight Cryptography
INTRODUCTION

               In accordance with the advancement and wide use of Internet of Things (IoT) applications and with the emergence of wireless communication and mobile technologies, IoT and cloud computing have become important concepts. IoT aims to provide connectivity for anything with minimum storage and computing capabilities [1] [2]. Security is a major issue in cloud-integrated IoT, and the user data stored in the cloud requires secure protection [3]. A lightweight multifactor secured smart card-based user authentication is introduced in cloud–IoT applications [4]. Figure 1 shows the architecture for cloud-integrated IoT, which consists of the hybrid cloud, IoT devices, and users. The hybrid cloud includes public and private cloud. The public cloud is used to store nonsensitive data, whereas the private cloud is used to store highly sensitive data. The end-to-end secure communication architecture is proposed for a cloud-connected IoT environment. Herein, a constrained application protocol is proposed for a secure communication between IoT and the cloud [5]. A homomorphic encryption system based on the ring learning with error algorithm is used for cloud user authentication [6]. 

                Role-based access control (RBAC) with the trust evaluation (TE) algorithm is used to provide access control to IoT resources. RBAC involves three TE algorithms, namely, local trust evaluation algorithm, virtual trust evaluation algorithm, and cooperative trust evaluation algorithm [7]. A lightweight IoT-based cryptography authentication scheme is introduced to provide security in a cloud–IoT environment. A proposed lightweight authentication scheme adopts a one-way hash function and exclusive OR operation [8]. An advanced lightweight authentication scheme based on formal and rigorous informal security analysis is proposed for a cloud-assisted IoT environment. Formal security analysis is performed through a random oracle model [9]. A trust-based IoT cloud environment is introduced to provide a secure storage in a cloud environment. The past history of each IoT device is collected using a centralized IoT trust protocol considered for security analysis [10]. A secure and compliant continuous assessment framework (SCCAF) is proposed to protect user data in a cloud assisted IoT environment. The SCCAF provides guidelines for cloud users in evaluating the security and compliance levels of cloud service providers [11]. 

                   Lightweight context-aware IoT services are provided to the user. Moreover, the enacted lightweight context-aware service uses a filter to forward the most relevant data to users on the basis of their context [12]. The fuzzy analytical hierarchical process (FAHP) algorithm is proposed to evaluate the influential fa tors in IoT. The FAHP provides a satisfactory analysis of tangible factors, namely, security, value, and connectivity [13]. A lightweight bootstrapping mechanism is used for secure IoT services. The Ephemeral Diffie–Hellman Over COSE protocol is used to standardize key agreements in IoT devices [14]. The main aim of the current work is to propose a multilevel authentication scheme that can provide enhanced security in an integrated IoT–cloud environment. The main contributions of this work are summarized as follows:
➢ It proposes a hybrid cloud consisting of private and public cloud that can improve the security of IoT systems. IoT devices are also divided into sensitive and nonsensitive devices on the basis of the type of data produced. ➢ The security of sensitive data from sensitive devices is ensured by encrypting them using RC6 and the Fiestel encryption scheme. The encrypted sensitive data are stored in a private cloud via a gateway device to provide high security. ➢ Nonsensitive data from nonsensitive devices are encrypted through the AES algorithm and then stored in a public cloud via a gateway device. ➢ To protect cloud-stored data from  malicious users, this work proposes a multilevel authentication scheme with trusted authority (TA). The multilevel authentication scheme is subdivided into three levels, however adding (TA) to the proposed Cloud-IoT Environment will result in extra cloud service cost, since the Environment will deal with third party service. ➢ To prevent malicious users from reading stored files, this work proposes a first level authentication scheme. At this level, users need to provide their user ID and password to the TA. 

                    Then, the TA verifies these credentials against registered credentials. If the verification is successful, then the TA grants the users access to read the files; otherwise, it rejects the request for access. ➢ To prevent unauthorized users from downloading files, this work provides a second-level authentication scheme in which users need to provide their biometrics, such as fingerprint and retina, to the TA. Then, the TA verifies the given credentials against registered credentials. If the verification is successful, then the TA grants the users access to download files; otherwise, it rejects the request for access.
 ➢ The final level of authentication is proposed to protect the data from unauthorized reading and downloading. At this level, users need to provide their user ID, password, and biometrics to the TA. Then, the TA verifies the given credentials against registered credentials. If the verification is successful, then the  TA grants the users access todownload and read the files from the cloud; otherwise, it rejects the request for access

                 II. ORGANIZATION OF THE PAPER The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 3 background of previous works related to secure cloud–IoT environments. Section 4 describes the security issues in existing cloud-enabled IoT environments. Section 5 presents the proposed technique and compares its performance with those of existing methods. Section 6 evaluates the performance of the proposed architecture and compare it with existing methods. Finally, Section 7 concludes the paper and highlights the future direction of this research.
